<h2>Genealogical Section</h2>
<p>What follows is the original explanation of the records and numbering system, then the modern numbering based on Ahnentafel for direct ancestors.</p>
<br><br>
<h3>Original Front Matter</h3>
<p>This section is made up of sheets of data, each of which represents a complete line from an immigrant ancestor (in a few cases some pre-immigrant ancestors also) down through the woman who married into another line. Each generation on a sheet is numbered according to the following system: number I represents our children; number II represents ourselves; number III our parents and so on. Each ancestor's name is underlined in red in order to facilitate tracing down any line or lines. Under the name of each ancestor is given such of his or her vital data as could be found and any further information which we considered of value or interest. At the bottom of each sheet is underlined in red the name of the family into which the last named person on the sheet married and hence the family name in which the particular strain is further carried.</p>
<p>Further research may cause some minor changes in the data contained herein but in the main it seems correct. The sources of information are too numerous to mention but consist of numerous books, private records, correspondence, and newspaper articles.</p>
<br><br>
<h3>Digital Edition Numbering</h3>
<p>For persons present in the original 1930s editions, three numbers will be associated with a given individual: the generation numeral as described above, with 0 representing the generation of the original authors' grandchildren, an Ahnentafel decimal number to be explained shortly, and the original sequential numbering from earlier editions in parentheses for ease of comparison. For new additions, only the first two numbers will be shown.</p>
<p>The choice of generation numbering is important because difference in siblings' relative ages and ages of parenthood can and do quickly make those of the same "generation" born in different decades or even centuries. For the purposes of this edition, Generation I is anchored at those in a given line born between the World Wars. The four central anchors for this work's Generation I will therefore be: Edward Dana Orth (b. 1923), Marilyn E Orth nee Sewell (b. 1932), Don Maxwell West (b. 1922), and Amy Gale West nee Goodhue (b. 1924). Thus there is already a nearly eleven year span of birth years and at least that in death dates. As an example of how each generation grows wider in these terms, take two members of generation -I: Richard James West, Jr, (b. 1969) and Cameron Weston Orth (b. 1992).</p>
<p>Ahnentafel numbering is the most convenient system for labelling direct ancestors without having to list out all names first. It also provides a quick method of finding relations between direct relatives: a factor of two is a generation gap and addition of one indicates a maternal path. So, #3 would be #1's mother, and #13, #3's paternal grandmother. The modification in use here will make a number stand for all siblings of the direct ancestor of that number. To differentiate these siblings, capital letters will be used for elders and lowercase for twins and younger siblings. An example would be Clifield George Sewell: using Marilyn E Sewell as I-1, her father would be II-2 and Lillian Ethel Sewell nee Pooler would be II-3. Clifield's siblings would be as follows: Clarence W (b. 1893), II-3A; Gladys G (b. 1894), II-3B; Cecil J (b. 1896), II-3C; Lorne W (b. 1900), II-3D; Alvin D (b. 1902), II-3E; Orin D (b. 1905), II-3F; Thelma Maud (b. 1907), II-3g. To make things more complicated, when dealing with cousins (children of the siblings of direct ancestors), a Modified Henry System will be used. Using the previous example, Thelma Maud McKenna nee Sewell has a husband named Roscoe McKenna, given the numbering II-3g.0, and a son William B. McKenna, given I-3g.1. William's eldest grandchild would be -I-3g.111. The result is a decimal system comparable to those used in libraries. Advantages include ease of use after a learning curve, no re-numbering along the direct line, only potential movement of letters if a new sibling is discovered, and the absence or presence of a letter telling whether or not the individual lies on the direct line.</p>